<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter version="5.0" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
	<title>Professional Overview</title>
	<para>
		More than a decade <emphasis>(14 years plus)</emphasis> experience in IT and multi-tiered 
		client-server systems based on Enterprise Architectures.
	</para>
	<para>
		A big fan of continuous and automation processes. 
		Automated Web Testing, Automated Code Review and Continuous Performance Monitoring.
	</para>
	<para>
		Technology proposals/introduction which greatly improve the quality of the 
		project by improving the skill sets of the development team and quality assurance team.
	</para>
	<para>
		Specialized experience in Java Based Systems in Telecommunication Companies, 
		Web Oriented Development Companies and Distributed Systems. 
		Practitioner of Object Oriented Analysis/Design and Objective Oriented 
		Programming in various Languages, applying Best Practices, Design Patterns and 
		identifying Anti-Patterns with extensive experience in the full life cycle 
		of the software design process including requirements definition, prototyping, 
		proof of concept, design, architecture, interface implementation, testing, and maintenance. 
	</para>
	<para>
		From Web based applications, Data Warehousing, Data Transformation, Reporting Systems, 
		Element Management Systems, Network Management Systems, Open-source projects 
		(JAMES, HTTPClient, Mobicents) contribution, VOIP/sip systems, Inter-OS Deployment Systems, 
		E-Commerce, Multi-Threaded Applications, TCP/IP based Applications, Messaging Frameworks and Applications.
	</para>
	<para>
		Proficient in Hardware setup, Server configurations in Application Servers, 
		Source Code Management (CVS, SVN, GIT), Continuous Integration (Cruise Control, Hudson/Jenkins), 
		Web Servers, Mail Server, FTP Server, File Sharing (samba), Database Systems 
		and Multi Platform/Operating System Installation and Configuration.
	</para>
	<para>
		Involves in Research, Design, Design Review, Development, Code Review, White box testing, Black Box Testing.
		Project planning: Infrastructure (SVN, CVS, GIT, Window Servers, Linux Servers, DB Servers, etc.).
		Resource Management and Mentoring, Technology Research, and Software Development Life Cycle.
		Been involve in mission critical systems and involve in performance boosting of current and legacy systems.
	</para>
	<para>
	Deployed outside Philippines: Japan (2) and US(2).
	</para>
	<para>
		<emphasis>
		My diverse experiences have given me the ability to join any team and quickly become productive.
		I am eager to learn new skills and competencies. I am passionate about what I do, the applications 
		I develop, and the solutions I architect. I am an enthusiastic team player and strive to 
		contribute best practice, standards compliant approaches wherever possible.
		</emphasis>
	</para>
</chapter>
